BANDIT NOTES
============

Level 0 → 1
How I solved it: SSHed in as bandit0, ran ls, found readme file, ran cat readme to read the password.

Level 1 → 2
How I solved it: File was named -. Used cat ./- to avoid dash being read as a flag

Level 2 → 3
How I solved it: The name of the file was --spaces in this filename--. I solved it by running cat "./--spaces in this filename--" to account for the fact that it begins with dashes, and that it has spaces in  it

Level 3 → 4
How I solved it: The file was hidden in a directory called inhere, so I ran cd inhere to get into it, then I ran ls -la to list all files, including hidden ones, found it then read it

Level 4 → 5
How I solved it: Now the password was stored in the only human readable file in a directory. So I did the usual going into a directory, then I ran file ./* to show all the types of files, the file I was looking for was an ASCII type file, so I found it, read it and boom, done

Level 5 → 6
How I solved it: The file had specifications now. It was human readable, exactly 1033 bytes and not execuatable. So I used find . -type f -size 1033c -not -executable. Breaking the commands down what I basically did was say "Hey, for every thing in this directory, search for a file that is exactly 1033 bytes and is not executable" I found it then read it.

Level 6 → 7
How I solved it: So following up from the specifications task the file was now owned by a user, and also a group, and was 33 bytes in size, so to find the user I used find / -user bandit7 -group bandit6 
-size 33c. Now it's interesting to note that '/' after find means search this whole machine, literally everywhere, and alo every file has two owners, a user and a group, it's a simple concept to grasp,
 like a student and a department. In a school not every department has unlimited access, but the students in a department have unlimited access. that's not all, I was receiving some message errors and cleared it by using 2>/dev/null which meant that 2>/dev/null — This is redirection. Remember > sends output somewhere? Well Linux has two types of output:

Standard output (1) — normal results
Standard errgithub.com/DanMaverick39/bandit-writeupsgithub.com/DanMaverick39/bandit-writeupsor (2) — error messages

2> means "redirect error messages." /dev/null is a special black hole on Linux — anything sent there disappears permanently.
So 2>/dev/null means: "throw all error messages in the bin, show me only real results."
You'll use this constantly in security work to filter noisy output. 
So basically I was saying: 
"Search the entire filesystem for files owned by user bandit7, belonging to group bandit6, exactly 33 bytes in size — and hide all permission errors."

Level 7 → 8
How I solved it:Now the password was stored in a file called data.txt next to the word millionth, so I initially read it using cat but then I got bombarded with millions of lines of text, making it impossible to find millionth. I had to use grep 'millionth' data.text to find it


Level 8 → 9
How I solved it:It was in a file and was the only line of text that occurs once, so I used sort data.txt to arrange them in order so that they all match with their copies,
 then uniq -u to bring out the line without a duplicate. The command was sort data.txt uniq -u. 

Level 9 → 10
How I solved it:The challenge now was that the password stored in the file data.txt in one of the few human-readable strings, preceded by several ‘=’ characters.
I used strings to scan the file and extract any sequences of readable text, then used grep "===" to extract the lines possessing the hint. strings data.txt | grep "==="

Level 10 → 11
How I solved it: The password was stored in a file which contained base64 encoded data, so I ran base64 -d filename. and decoded the file

Level 11 → 12
How I solved it:The password was stored in a file where all lowercase (a-z) and uppercase (A-Z) letters have been rotated by 13 positions. I had to first read and then translate the file using cat <filename> | tr 'a-zA-Z' 'n-za-mN-ZA-M'. This translated them back to the original


Level 12 → 13
How I solved it:Well I gotta be honest, this is the hardest level I've faced and trust me, I've faced a lot of hard levels 😅 okay, maybe not that hard but you know what I mean.
So the password was in a file that had been converted to a hexdump then compressed multiple times, so essentially I had to convert it back to binary then decompress it.
But before that, I had to create my own directory, basically a space where I would be alowed to write files, cause bandit's home directory is read-only, it's also good practice to do stuff in a private directory.
I did this by running mktemp -d, then I moved into it using cd <the directory location> . I now copied the file from the home directory into that temp directory using <cp ~/data.txt .> .Then I started the conversion process.

STEP BY STEP

1. Created temp directory with mktemp -d
2. Copied data.txt there with cp ~/data.txt .
3. Converted hexdump to binary with xxd -r data.txt > data
4. Used file data to identify compression type
5. Renamed and decompressed accordingly:
   - gzip: mv data data.gz → gunzip data.gz
   - bzip2: mv data data.bz2 → bunzip2 data.bz2
   - tar: tar -xf data (no renaming needed)
6. After each decompression ran ls to find new file, then file on it
7. Repeated until file said ASCII text
8. cat the final file to get password

Key lessons:
- tar bundles, gzip/bzip2 compress
- tar doesn't need renaming, others do
- file command is your compass throughout
- xxd -r reverses a hexdump back to binary

* This was my most stressful level so bear with me 🥲

Level 13 → 14

Goal: Use a private SSH key found in bandit13's home directory to access bandit14 without a password.

Step 1 — Copy the private key to my local machine

The private key file sshkey.private was sitting in bandit13's home directory on the Bandit server. I couldn't use it directly from the server because Bandit blocks SSH connections made from within itself. I had to copy it to my own machine first using scp — Secure Copy, which transfers files between machines over SSH.

scp -P 2220 bandit13@bandit.labs.overthewire.org:sshkey.private ~/

Breaking this down:
- scp — securely copy a file between machines
- -P 2220 — connect on port 2220 (capital P for scp, unlike lowercase p for ssh)
- bandit13@bandit.labs.overthewire.org — log in as bandit13 on the Bandit server
- :sshkey.private — the colon separates the server address from the filename. This tells scp which file to grab from bandit13's home directory
- ~/ — destination, meaning copy it into my local home directory

After running this it asked for bandit13's password, then copied the file to my machine.

Step 2 — Fix the file permissions

When I tried to use the key immediately, SSH refused with a warning:

WARNING: UNPROTECTED PRIVATE KEY FILE!
Permissions 0640 are too open.

The file had permissions that allowed other users on my system to read it. SSH treats any private key accessible to others as compromised and refuses to use it entirely — even if nobody actually read it, the exposure itself is the problem.

I fixed this by running:

chmod 600 ~/sshkey.private

600 means only I can read and write the file. No one else has any access. SSH was satisfied and allowed the key to be used.

Step 3 — Log into bandit14 using the private key

With the key secured, I connected to bandit14 using the -i flag which tells SSH to use an identity file instead of a password:

ssh -i ~/sshkey.private bandit14@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220

The -i ~/sshkey.private part says: "use this private key file as my proof of identity — no password needed." The server already had bandit14's matching public key stored. When my private key matched it, access was granted immediately.

Key lessons:
- scp copies files securely between machines over SSH — same syntax as SSH but with a colon separating server address from filepath
- Private key files must have chmod 600 permissions or SSH refuses to use them
- Key-based SSH authentication replaces passwords entirely — this is the professional standard used on every real cloud server

Level 14 → 15
Goal: Retrieve the password by submitting the current level's 
password to port 30000 on localhost.

Steps:
1. I had to get the current levels password by running cat /etc/bandit_pass/bandit14 . Bandit typically stores all the passwords for each level here.
2. After that I now had to send it to another port so that it could receive the password and send the next levels password. I used nc for that. I ran echo 'password' | nc localhost port . This did just that.
3. Password received, stored and awaiting use.

Key lessons:
- localhost means the machine I'm currently on.
- nc syntax is used for connecting to services, transferring files, and
much more.
- /etc/bandit_pass/bandit14 is where bandit stores all it's passwords.
